.TH SHNCPD 8
.SH NAME
shncpd \- the simple, stupid and slow HNCP daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shncpd
.IR option ...
[
.B \-\-
]
.IR interface ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Shncpd
is a standalone implementation of a useful subset of the Homenet protocol
stack.  It implements:
.IP \[bu] 2
DNCP flooding;
.IP \[bu]
prefix and address assignment;
.IP \[bu]
prefix delegation (manually configured);
.IP \[bu]
a router advertisement server;
.IP \[bu]
a DHCPv4 server.
.RE

.B Shncpd
does not do routing itself, but relies on
.BR babeld .

Before running
.BR shncpd ,
you should start an instance of
.B babeld
with redistribution of protocol 43 enabled.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " multicast-address"
Specify the link-local multicast address to use.  The default is
.BR ff02::8808 .
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Specify the UDP port number to use.  The default is
.BR 8808 .
.TP
.BI \-d " level"
Specify the amount of debugging information dumped to standard error.
Useful values are
.B 0
(the default) and
.BR 2 .
.TP
.BI \-E " prefix"
Announce an externally delegated prefix over both HNCP and the routing
protocol.  This option may be repeated multiple times.
.TP
.BI \-N " prefix"
Announce a name server over HNCP.  This option may be repeated multiple
times.
.TP
.BI
.TP
.B \-R
Disable the router advertisement (RA) server.  By default, router
advertisements are sent if we are a router.
.TP
.B \-D
Disable the DHCPv4 server.  By default, the DHCPv4 server is enabled if we
win the election, even if we are not acting as a router.
.TP
.BR \-s " script"
Run the given script when we learn new DHCP data.  The script is called
multiple times with the argument "up", then a single time with the
argument "down".
.TP
.BR \-L " interface"
Add a leaf interface.
.TP
.BR \-A " interface"
Add an ad-hoc interface.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Dump the current state to standard output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR babeld (8).
.SH AUTHOR
Juliusz Chroboczek.
